blog/posts/2021-12-10-dypend-dynamic-depends.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: Dypend - dynamically add dependencies
subtitle: 一行代码动态加载Python库依赖
author: "louisyoungx"
date: 2021-12-10
header_img: /img/in-post/2021-12-10/header.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
  - chinese
  - python
  - library
  - dynamic
  - dependence
  - auto
---

[`English Version`](https://www.reddit.com/r/Python/comments/rc9qzm/import_libraries_dynamically/)

前几天在一个开源项目里遇到好多用户反馈，不会安装依赖，或者执行 `pip install -r requirements.txt` 没有反应。

<!-- more -->

可能造成的原因有很多种，一一排查起来也很麻烦。

想一劳永逸解决这个问题，一般大家都是到 `site-packages` 里面把所需要的包导出来，放到项目根目录。

但这样终究太过粗糙，不符合Python优雅的个性。

所以我就想，能不能动态引入包，如果没有的话，再调用 `pip` 下载。最后也差不多实现了我的设想。

[GitHub - Dypend: Load dependent libraries dynamically.](https://github.com/louisyoungx/dypend)

我大概查了一下，现在好像没有人用过这个方案，我自己使用感觉还是很方便的，分享给大家。

> 虽然想打成library给大家下载的，后来想到这又要依赖pip，违背了做动态依赖的本意
>
> 所以我推荐是使用 `快速开始 - 注入代码运行` 中的方式

## 快速开始

### 通过 `pip` 安装运行

在 `PyPI` 下载 `dypend`依赖包

```shell
pip install dypend
```

在本地生成 `requirements.txt` 依赖文件

```shell
pip freeze >  requirements.txt
```

在项目的入口文件的最上层引入 `dypend` ，不用更改任何其他代码

```python
import dypend
```

这时 `dypend`会检查你的Python环境中是否都有 `requirements.txt` 中的包，如果没有， `dypend`会调用 `pip`下载。

### 注入代码运行

在本地生成 `requirements.txt` 依赖文件

```shell
pip freeze >  requirements.txt
```

在项目的入口文件的最上层添加如下代码，不用更改任何其他代码

```python
import os
import re
REQUIREMENTS = os.getcwd() + '/requirements.txt'
def getDepends():
    requirements = open(REQUIREMENTS, 'r')
    libs = requirements.readlines()
    libList = []
    for lib in libs:
        try:
            name = re.search("^.+(?===)", lib).group(0)
            version = re.search("(?<===).+$", lib).group(0)
            libDict = {
                "name": name,
                "version": version
            }
            libList.append(libDict)
        except:
            continue
    return libList
def importLib():
    """Load python dependent libraries dynamically"""

    libList = getDepends()

    from pip._internal import main as pip_main
    import importlib

    def install(package):
        pip_main(['install', package])

    createVar = locals()

    for lib in libList:
        print(lib)
        try:
            createVar[lib["name"]] = importlib.import_module(lib["name"])
        except Exception as e:
            try:
                install(f'{lib["name"]}=={lib["version"]}')
                createVar[lib["name"]] = importlib.import_module(lib["name"])
            except Exception as e:
                print(e)
importLib
```

这时dypend会检查你的Python环境中是否都有 `requirements.txt` 中的包，如果没有，你会看到depend帮你自动下载。

Commit message:

perf(stora/dypend): add language version tag

blog/posts/2021-12-10-dypend-dynamic-depends.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: Dypend - dynamically add dependencies
subtitle: Load dependency libraries dynamically
author: "louisyoungx"
date: 2021-12-10
header_img: /img/in-post/2021-12-10/header.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
  - chinese
  - python
  - library
  - dynamic
  - dependence
  - auto
---

[`中文版本`](https://rocke.top/post/2021/12/11/dypend-dynamic-depends/)

A few days ago, I encountered many users feedback in an open source project.

<!-- more -->

The Problem is they can not install the dependencies, such as execute `pip install -r requirements.txt` but nothing happened.

There are many problems like the wrong config of env that can cause this result and it's troublesome to check them one by one.

To solve this problem once and for all, we usually go to `site-packages` and put the required packages in the project root directory.

it's crude, not elegant.

So I wanted to load packages dynamically. if package do not exist, use `pip` to download them. 

I searched Google roughly, it seems no one have mention this method, and I feel it's convenient to use, so I share it.

> Although dypend is packaged for everyone to download, however that it depends on pip, which is against the intention of doing dynamic dependencies.
>
> So I recommend using the `Quick Start - Run by injecting code` approach

## Quick start

> Github dypend - https://github.com/louisyoungx/dypend
> Could you give dypend a star, I really need it, Thank you! 

### Run by `pip install`

Download the `dypend`  package from `PyPI` .

```shell
pip install dypend
```

Freeze `requirements.txt`  file.

```shell
pip freeze > requirements.txt
```

import `dypend` at the top of the project's entry file, without changing any other code.

```python
import dypend
```

 ``dypend`` will check packages in ``requirements.txt`` is available or not in your Python environment, if not, ``dypend`` will call ``pip`` to download them.

### Run by injecting code

Freeze `requirements.txt`  file.

```shell
pip freeze >  requirements.txt
```

Add the following code to the top of the project's entry file, without changing any other code.

```python
import os
import re
REQUIREMENTS = os.getcwd() + '/requirements.txt'
def getDepends():
    requirements = open(REQUIREMENTS, 'r')
    libs = requirements.readlines()
    libList = []
    for lib in libs:
        try:
            name = re.search("^.+(?===)", lib).group(0)
            version = re.search("(?<===).+$", lib).group(0)
            libDict = {
                "name": name,
                "version": version
            }
            libList.append(libDict)
        except:
            continue
    return libList
def importLib():
    """Load python dependent libraries dynamically"""

    libList = getDepends()

    from pip._internal import main as pip_main
    import importlib

    def install(package):
        pip_main(['install', package])

    createVar = locals()

    for lib in libList:
        print(lib)
        try:
            createVar[lib["name"]] = importlib.import_module(lib["name"])
        except Exception as e:
            try:
                install(f'{lib["name"]}=={lib["version"]}')
                createVar[lib["name"]] = importlib.import_module(lib["name"])
            except Exception as e:
                print(e)
importLib
```

 ``dypend`` will check packages in ``requirements.txt`` is available or not in your Python environment, if not, ``dypend`` will call ``pip`` to download them.
